https://www.mdpi.com/2504-4494/4/1/27

This paper has used a different set of data utilizing the Cox Proportional Hazard model. It focuses on predicting the Mean Up Time of cutting tool insets based on a single cutting parameter: cutting speed. They exmployed the model for the predicition and did so by transforming the data. Although I was confused at the use of the Cox Proportional Hazard model, the authors thought it was a good fit for assessing tool lifespan and has been used in previous machining studies. The first step the author does is generate degradtion paths using a gamma prcoess. The gamma process is employed to generate a set of tool lifetimes. Another part that I was surprised in was the author used a logarithmic transformation of cutting speed in order to improve in prediction performance. In addition, the author uses a piecewise stochastic model for flank wear in order to see the effects at the beginning to the end of the tool life. This paper is helpful when looking at appropriate data for using the Cox Proprotional Hazard model. I would liek to revisit it when my partner and I want to pick a data set as it sets out important notes to consider such as data transformation, logarithmic transformation and size of the data. 

https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1742-6596/974/1/012008/pdf

This paper showed the method and the coding for the Cox Proportional Hazard. The researchers used data from the 2012 Indonesian Demographic and Health Survey for the first birth interval. They compared the performance of the model to the three accelerated failure time models by Weibull, exponential and log-normal distributions. The data was assessed for violations of the assumption through log cumulative hazard plots and statistical tests. In the paper, one shortfall that I feel wasn't addressed was the results of the analysis of the data. It was discussed how they employed the log cumulatize hazard plots and Goodness-Of-Fit test. The analysis identified significant covariates, including women's education level, husband's education level, contraceptive kowledge, access to madd media, wealth index, and employment status. 